to the Middle East now an Israel's
defense minister has said it is an
opportune moment to reach a deal on the
release of hostages held by Hamas talks
are being held in Cairo with Qatar
mediating one of its spokesmen has
expressed cautious optimism meanwhile
Palestinians who've returned to the city
of K Yunis in Gaza have spoken of the
devastation they found after months of
intense fighting Israel says its troops
have pulled back from the area in
southern Gaza to prepare for the next
stage of the conflict more than 300 Aid
trucks have entered Gaza
that's the highest number in a day since
the start of the war our midle
correspondent Lucy Williamson reports
from
Jerusalem for months Han Yunis was a
city of targets its apartment blocks and
hospitals seen by Israel as hiding
places for
Hamas residents returned today searching
for their City Homes inside the concrete
mountains as Israel continued talks with
Hamas on a ceasefire deal
the destruction is huge kanun has been
destroyed it all needs to be rebuilt now
it's not suitable for animal to live in
let alone human
being I wasn't expecting this
destruction our biggest request is that
they withdraw from our land it's better
for us to have tents on the of our home
rather than being
displaced Hamas launched Rockets from KH
yunes the Army said even as its troops
withdrew it hit back with air
strikes Israel's prime minister has
promised total victory in this war but
Hamas is still fighting and the
withdrawal leaves just a skeleton
Israeli presence across the middle of
the
Strip This is being presented as a
temporary tactical withdrawal and that
buys Benjamin Netanyahu more time under
American pressure to agree a fire deal
and pressure from his own cabinet to
keep the war going he's framing this as
a pause not an end in the fighting
keeping both foreign and domestic allies
on
track we are working constantly to
attain our objectives first and foremost
the release of all of our hostages and
the achieving of total victory over
Hamas this Victory requires entering
Rafa and eliminating the terrorist
battalions there this will happen there
is a
date returning residents to their homes
could smooth the path to a ceasefire
deal but it could also help those in
Israel who want to continue the war
Israel is facing tough us demands to
move refugees out of Rafa before any
ground offensive
there a day after the Israeli withdrawal
it's clear how much the face of Han
yunes has changed much less the face of
the war
Lucy Williamson BBC News
Jerusalem well I spoke to my colleague
Hugo bisha in Jerusalem a little earlier
about the prospects of a successful
ceasefire hostage deal yeah it's very
interesting Samantha because yesterday
the qataris who have been you know
mediating these negotiations and even
the Israeli foreign minister they said
there was cautious optimism that uh a
deal was possible but now Hamas is
saying that there is nothing new in this
proposal that the offer on the table
doesn't meet their demands and
essentially they have three main demands
they want a permanent ceasefire in other
words the end of the war they want all
Israeli troops out of Gaza and they also
want displaced residents to be allowed
to return to Northern Gaza now in the
past the Israelis have rejected those
demands as unacceptable they say that
this would only give Hamas the
opportunity to regroup but there is a
lot of pressure for deal to be reached
especially from the Americans so the
head of the CIA is in Cairo for those
talks and there is a lot of pressure at
home as well on the Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu to reach a deal
especially from the families of the
hostages 133 hostages who remain in
captivity in Gaza essentially they say
that time is running out to save those
hostages they say that the uh Israeli
strategy of trying to put military
pressure on Hamas to negotiate hasn't
really worked but at the same time the
prime minister is also under pressure
from uh some of his Hardline allies who
are against the idea of making
concessions they say we need to finish
the job we need to destroy Hamas so I
think it really shows how difficult
these negotiations are and we still
don't know whether uh major obstacles in
those talks have been resolved yeah and
meanwhile here you go more Aid is
getting in the largest amount since the
war started 6 months ago how is that
operation going is it getting to the
people who desperately needed and do we
know if that will
continue yeah so the Israeli said that
yesterday more than 400 trucks were
allowed to enter Gaza they say that this
was uh the largest number of uh trucks
with uh aid supplies uh that entered
Gaza since the beginning of the war and
obviously this only happen after a lot
of pressure again especially from the
Americans following that deadly attack
on the aid Convoy so the Israelis were
under a lot of pressure to uh allow more
uh humanitarian assistance into Gaza we
know that there have been warnings of
famine especially in Northern Gaza and
now the Israeli saying that they have uh
you know allowed more trucks into the
territory so this is part of the plan
part of the measures that have been
announced by the Israeli military by the
Israeli authorities to improve uh you
know the level of humanitarian
assistance uh for the popul a of Gaza
and obviously you know we're talking
about those ceasefire negotiations that
are happening in Cairo uh the Hope here
is that a deal uh is going to result in
at least you know in a pausing
hostilities that would of course allow
more humanitarian Aid to reach those
Palestinians uh who are you know in
desperate need in parts of Gaza